So the study determined that it is
optimal to do 30 sets per body part per
week for upper body muscles and 45 sets
for lower body muscles.
Think about that for a second. Let's say
you're working 10 different muscle
groups.
So I'll pick a low average there. Let's
say you're doing an average of 35 sets
per body part. So that's 350 sets a
week.
You'd have to quit your job.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond what a
lot of the sports science PhDs you see
on YouTube or social media in general. I
see a little differently. different
research, different education, and I
think I can bring some things together
and help add clarity to a few different
subjects. Exercise volume is one of the
subjects that I think is
there's a lot of things going on in that
conversation and there's a lot of
arguments going on and I don't if you're
not following then good for you because
the the arguing back and forth is not
productive. It's what total waste of
time and a lot of people are not acting
like gentlemen in this argument which
kind of just adds to the drama and
doesn't do anything to get to
conclusions. So I'm going to help you
get to conclusions today. There are two
approaches to
strength training. There's high
intensity which requires a lower volume
of exercise meaning how many sets you
do. And then there is the higher volume
way of doing it, which is much lower
intensity. So you're not lifting to
failure. You're putting the weight down
before you get there. And you have to do
lots and lots of sets. And let me just
give you an example. Here's a study. One
of the authors was Professor Brad
Chenfeld, who's a friend of mine. And I
know he's an ethical guy. So, a lot of
people criticized this study and said
there's no way this happened because the
exercise volumes are just ridiculous
and they are. But I know Brad and I know
guys that came out of his lab and they
are ethical people and there's no doubt
in my mind that they did this study. So
the study determined that it is optimal
to do 30 sets per body part per week for
upper body muscles and 45 sets for lower
body muscles.
Think about that for a second. Let's say
you're working 10 different muscle
groups.
So I'll pick a low average there. Let's
say you're doing an average of 35 sets
per body part. So that's 350 sets a
week.
you'd have to quit your job and just
live in the gym or spend your whole day
in the gym to accomplish this. That's
it's crazy. So, apparently they did this
and individuals did grow muscle. Now,
this is a way of doing it. It is not the
wrong way. It's just a way of developing
strength and muscle. Also, before I
continue to high intensity, I'd like to
point out strength and size are exactly
the same thing when you're talking about
well-developed athletes. The more
developed somebody becomes, the stronger
somebody becomes, their strength and
size are very highly correlated. in the
beginning because everybody's different
and some people seem to have bigger
musculature that can or cannot produce
similar outputs to similar individuals.
As time goes on, it all matches up. So,
there's been a very strong effort from
sports scientists to try and separate
these two topics. And I don't think
that's the right move. That doesn't make
any sense to me. It's the same subject.
And I think it was done in order to
alleviate confusion
and all it's really done is add
confusion uh and and which is why I'm
making this video. Instead of volume
there is highintensity exercise which is
a much lower set volume like maybe 10
sets per body part per week. Now,
the much stronger bodybuilders have done
this and strength athletes or athletes
in general, if you talk about more than
10 sets per week per body part, they
look at you like you're nuts. So, like
other than bodybuilding, nobody trains
like that. Nobody at all. It's kind of a
silly conversation to have, but it's
important because I think so many people
are being pulled in one direction or the
other. And I want everyone to know it's
really the same subject. It's just a
different approach. So you can go high
intensity instead. So you train with
high intensity. You do 10 sets per body
part per week.
Or you could go even higher
intensity and take down the risk.
Because the problem is most people start
off lifting, they they train to
momentary muscular fatigue. I think
that's almost the natural way to lift.
You got to push yourself. And in fact,
you're looking around. Anybody who's
strong in a gym is probably training to
fatigue. So, you start doing this. Once
somebody builds a significant level of
strength, like let's say they got to get
under a squat bar that's got 500 lb on
it,
that makes you really concerned with
injury. So, a lot of these guys, like if
you look at your favorite bodybuilder or
whatever, and they're doing this massive
volume program and they're in the gym
all day, well, right, but that's not how
they got there. They're doing that in
order to avoid injury because high
intensity is it's easy when you're, you
know, 110 pound 15y old, but when you're
a 250 pound 30 year old
Yeah. And now all of a sudden you're
getting under some huge weights and
something could go wrong. So that's why
individuals have been gravitating. And I
think also a lot of these sports science
PhDs, you're older when you get your
PhD. You've been training a long time.
So now all of a sudden this high
intensity, you know, all about the log
book, always beating your records. Now
that seems kind of scary and maybe even
reckless.
My approach is neither of these options.
What I do is go even higher intensity
than high intensity, but I lower the
risk. And how do I do this? Variable
resistance. So variable resistance. And
you notice I'm wearing my Westside
barbell shirt. Westside barbell
pioneered this. Louis Simmons is really
the one who deserves all the credit. So,
training with
a massive amount of variance. Now, check
out the video of me doing a chest press.
You can see me going to fatigue multiple
times in one set. Now, you might imagine
that's going to do a lot for muscle
stimulus. Well, you would be imagining
correctly because there's a study. Dr.
Sean Connley performed a study and he
and I presented this data at Wayne State
University recently where we're using
high ratio variable resistance
specifically with X3. So, individuals
would do a set just like you saw me do
and they were able to cut down their
exercise volume away from a high
intensity program, cut it from there by
80%.
So that they were doing just I in the
study it was like 10 or 15 minutes. I do
about 40 minutes a day. So I'm doing
more than just the sort of abbreviated
standard X3 program. But these
individuals in sort of ACSM, not sort
of, it was the ACSM recommended muscle
hypertrophy program. That was one group.
The test group used X3, one set per body
part, per exercise, and you hit every
body part two times in a week. I really
like two sets per body part per week.
They grew the same. Actually, the X3 was
a little bit more, but not statistically
significant more. So, it was the same
amount of muscle growth or similar
amount of muscle growth
with 80% less time exercising.
When you do variable resistance, you're
taking the musculature beyond what would
be seen as regular momentary muscular
failure because you get more instances
of momentary muscular failure in every
set that you do. And you're doing that
with a fresh muscle.
When you're working out a fresh muscle,
taking a fresh muscle to momentary
muscular fatigue, the stimulus is
obvious going to obviously going to be
more powerful because you have more
contractile fuels, the ATP, the
glycogen, the creatine phosphate in the
cells, in the muscle cells to facilitate
these contractions. Later on in your
workout, you don't have that. You know,
just you just got a couple shots at it.
maybe one one or two per workout to just
devastate the muscle with the
diminishing range in one set. If you do
that, you're prioritizing strength,
which is going to get you where you want
to go from a muscular size perspective
in all cases. No exceptions to that. You
just have to continue developing. This
will have you spend far less time. I
mean, like I said, I'm working out. I'm
doing the same thing that the Westside
barbell guys are having the NFL
doing. I'm following that same program.
I'm gaining muscle. I my my joints feel
fantastic. I could not feel better. And
if you're doubting what I'm saying,
which you should because I sell this
product. So, you should listen to my
customers, not to me. go to the X3 Bar
users group on Facebook and you can see
40,000 people that are talking about
this exact subject and they're
succeeding by using variable resistance
provided by X3. Check it out. And I I
hope this video helped and I hope I
could condense all that volume
information and debate into a very short
period of time so you don't waste your
time looking at multiple hour videos
which are also out there on YouTube.
Leave a comment if you think I'm wrong.
Tell me that you think I'm wrong and
we'll debate about it. See you on the
next one. If this video helped you, I
want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.